GWEN IFILL: Good evening.
I'm Gwen Ifill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
GWEN IFILL: On the "NewsHour"
tonight: Republicans
reach for the reset button.
Donald Trump's unconventional
campaign's missteps
frustrate a GOP trying to keep
the focus on
Hillary Clinton.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Also ahead this
Wednesday,
I sit down with WikiLeaks
founder Julian Assange
to talk about the coming release
of more confidential
material on the Democratic Party
and Hillary
Clinton's campaign.
JULIAN ASSANGE, Founder,
WikiLeaks: It's a
wide range of materials.
It covers a number of important
issues.
GWEN IFILL: Plus: the enduring
nature of jellyfish
-- why these unusual creatures
are thriving
in a world increasingly damaged
by humans.
STEVEN BAILEY, New England
Aquarium: They
seem to be capable of doing
things physiologically
that can't be described by their
body plan,
by the structures that they
possess.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
GWEN IFILL: The presidential
campaign was
dominated today by reports that
Donald Trump
is taking on water, and may need
a rescue.
Trump brushed aside all talk of
internal division,
and of growing defections.
We will have a full report right
after the
news summary.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the day's
other news: President
Obama commuted the prison
sentences of 214
federal inmates, almost all of
them nonviolent
drug offenders.
The White House said it's the
largest number
of commutations in a single day
since at least
1900.
It is also part of president's
effort to address
sentencing rules that he
considers overly
harsh.
GWEN IFILL: Kansas Congressman
Tim Huelskamp,
a Tea Party favorite, has lost
his Republican
primary battle.
During his three terms in
office, he had feuded
repeatedly with GOP leaders, and
it cost him
his seat on the House
Agriculture Committee.
That boosted challenger Roger
Marshall, who
won 57 percent of the vote on
Tuesday.
JUDY WOODRUFF: There is
reporting today that
the U.S. organized an airlift of
$400 million
in cash to Iran last January.
It came just as Tehran released
several jailed
Americans, and as the nuclear
agreement was
being implemented.
The Wall Street Journal reports
the money
was part of settling a disputed
1970s arms
deal.
Republicans called it ransom,
but the White
House rejected that.
JOSH EARNEST, White House Press
Secretary:
This all came to a head at the
same time because
we were addressing and resolving
longstanding
concerns with Iranian behavior.
The United States, under
President Obama,
has not paid a ransom to secure
the release
of Americans unjustly detained
in Iran.
And we're not going to pay a
ransom.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Officials say the
payment had
to be made in cash because
international sanctions
on Iran barred any other
transfer method.
GWEN IFILL: A U.N. commission
reports Islamic
State fighters in Syria are
still holding
thousands of minority Yazidis as
sex slaves
or fighters.
They were captured two years ago
at Sinjar
in Iraq.
Thousands more fled the city,
but the militants
killed 5,000 Yazidi men.
That, in part, prompted U.S.
airstrikes against
ISIS.
JUDY WOODRUFF: For the first
time, a U.S.
law enforcement officer is
facing federal
terrorism charges for allegedly
trying to
aid ISIS.
A transit policeman in
Washington, Nicholas
Young, was charged today.
The FBI says he wanted to help
the group buy
mobile messaging apps.
GWEN IFILL: North Korea drew new
condemnation
today for firing a ballistic
missile that
landed in Japanese waters.
The missile flew more than 600
miles, and
part of it splashed down within
200 miles
of Japan's coastline.
That prompted the U.N. Security
Council to
meet in emergency session this
afternoon in
New York.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In Eastern
Ukraine, new signs
of escalating combat between
Russian-backed
rebels and Ukrainian government
troops.
U.N. human rights officials say
the casualties
in June were the highest in
nearly a year.
That is despite peace accords
that called
for withdrawing heavy weapons.
GWEN IFILL: Three hundred people
escaped with
their lives today in a
spectacular plane crash
in Dubai.
They were on an Emirates flight
from India
that slammed down on the runway
as it tried
to land.
The passengers got out just
before the plane
burst into flames.
MAN: While landing, I think the
engine or
something burned, so the smoke
was coming
MAN: While landing, I think the
engine or
something burned, so the smoke
was coming
inside.
So, immediately, they asked us
to evacuate.
So, we have escaped from the
emergency exit,
so we were jumping down.
GWEN IFILL: One firefighter died
battling
the blaze, and traffic was
stopped for several
hours, but later returned to
normal.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Back in this
country, the state
of Alabama refused parole for
Thomas Blanton
Jr. in the murder of four young
black girls
half-a-century ago.
They died when Ku Klux Klansman
bombed their
Birmingham church in 1963.
Blanton was convicted in 2000
and sentenced
to life in prison, after the FBI
reopened
the case.
GWEN IFILL: The Obama
administration warned
Congress today that it will run
out of money
to fight the Zika virus by
month's end.
The warning came as government
researchers
said they have begun their first
clinical
trial of a vaccine.
So far, Congress has deadlocked
on the president's
request for $1.9 billion in
emergency spending.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And Wall Street
managed to
break a losing streak today.
The Dow Jones industrial average
gained 41
points to close at 18355.
The Nasdaq rose 22 points, and
the S&P 500
added six.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
Donald Trump
picks another fight with GOP
leadership; WikiLeaks
founder Julian Assange on leaks
that target
the Democratic Party; why
jellyfish are filling
the oceans; and much more.
GWEN IFILL: It has been a
whirlwind day for
the Trump campaign, which is now
in full damage
control.
As Lisa Desjardins reports, the
Republican
ticket is working to get back on
the offensive.
LISA DESJARDINS: The assurances
came from
Donald Trump himself in Daytona
Beach, Florida.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
The campaign is doing really
well.
It's never been so well-united.
I would say, right now, it's the
best, in
terms of being united, than it's
been since
we began.
LISA DESJARDINS: And more
affirmation came
from Paul Manafort, the man now
running Trump's
campaign, during a FOX News
interview.
PAUL MANAFORT, Trump Convention
Manager: The
campaign is focused.
The campaign is moving forward
in a positive
way.
The only need we have for
interventions is
maybe with some media types who
keep saying
things that aren't true.
LISA DESJARDINS: This after a
swirl of stories
looking at doubts within
Republican ranks
about Trump, and at possible
divisions within
the Trump campaign.
This morning, Trump ally and
former House
Speaker Newt Gingrich said the
candidate needs
to recalibrate.
NEWT GINGRICH (R), Former
Speaker of the House:
I think some of what Trump has
done is just
very self-destructive.
LISA DESJARDINS: And, last
night, Hewlett-Packard
CEO Meg Whitman, a major
fund-raiser, told
The New York Times that she's
voting for Democrat
Hillary Clinton, becoming one of
the highest-profile
Republicans to do so.
Also today, it was widely
reported that some
high-level Republicans,
including party Chairman
Reince Priebus, may meet with
the nominee
soon to talk about his approach
-- all this
after a Washington Post
interview in which
Trump jumped between topics and
refused to
endorse House Speaker Paul Ryan
and Senator
John McCain, that on top of
Trump's weekend
interview with ABC News which
sparked controversy
about whether he thinks Russian
forces are
in Ukraine, and about his
pushing back at
the Khan family, who lost their
son in the
line of duty in Iraq.
Today, some damage control.
During a phone interview with
FOX News, Trump's
running mate, Indiana Governor
Mike Pence,
said he is endorsing Paul Ryan.
GOV.
MIKE PENCE (R-IN), Vice
Presidential Candidate:
I talked to Donald Trump this
morning about
my support for Paul Ryan, our
longtime friendship.
He strongly encouraged me to
endorse Paul
Ryan in next Tuesday's primary,
and I'm pleased
to do it.
LISA DESJARDINS: The swirling
splinters on
the right are fast fuel for
Trump's opposition.
A pro-Clinton super PAC released
this ad today:
SEN.
LINDSEY GRAHAM (R), South
Carolina: He doesn't
have the temperament or judgment
to control
himself.
SEN.
MARCO RUBIO (R), Florida: We're
about to turn
over the nuclear codes of the
United States
to an erratic individual.
LISA DESJARDINS: As for Hillary
Clinton herself,
she spent today in Colorado.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
And I'm thrilled to have this
chance to visit.
LISA DESJARDINS: While her
running mate, Virginia
Senator Tim Kaine, introduced
himself to North
Carolina voters, talking up
their plans to
aid small business.
SEN.
TIM KAINE (D-VA), Vice
Presidential Candidate:
As we are looking at economic
plans, and I'm
out basically talking about
jobs, that we
focus on the growth of small
businesses.
LISA DESJARDINS: North Carolina
is a key battleground,
so, no coincidence, it's where
Mike Pence
will campaign tomorrow.
GWEN IFILL: And Lisa joins me at
the table
now.
Lisa, you have been talking to
folks all day
long.
Give me a sense.
How concerned really are
mainstream rank-and-file
Republicans about the state of
the campaign?
LISA DESJARDINS: Well, one of
the questions
is, what is a mainstream
Republican these
days?
GWEN IFILL: Right.
LISA DESJARDINS: But I can say
Republican
leadership is concerned.
A high-level Republican Party
source told
me that Republican Party
Chairman Reince Priebus
is -- quote -- "furious" with
Donald Trump.
These are not words that are
thrown around
in such a place.
And that's a problem for Donald
Trump, because
he needs the RNC's operation to
get out the
vote.
Usually, candidates do.
Also, calling members of
Congress -- we now
have more members of Congress
coming out and
saying openly they are not
voting for Trump.
Charlie Dent of Pennsylvania, I
talked to
him on the phone extensively
today, and also
Ileana Ros-Lehtinen.
Now, those are two very
significant members,
not just because they're
Republicans, but
they're Republicans from swing
states that
Donald Trump wants.
GWEN IFILL: But Trump came out
today and said
that the party is as united as
ever before.
What do his supporters say?
LISA DESJARDINS: Right.
So, you talk to Donald Trump
supporters -- I
talked to one, the chairman of
his campaign
in South Carolina, Ed McMullen.
He says this is all a complete
disconnect,
that the Washington Republican
establishment
doesn't get what's happening on
the ground.
He says Trump voters and the
voters they want
aren't talking about the Khan
family.
They're thinking about their own
vacations.
jobs.
And he said he doesn't think
this is a long-term
hit for Donald Trump.
GWEN IFILL: And yet he's doing
pretty well
in the money department this
month.
LISA DESJARDINS: Yes, big news
from the Trump
campaign.
They raised $80 million in the
last month.
That's a little bit below the
Clinton toll,
which was $90 million, but it's
a huge improvement.
It shows that the Trump
campaign, along with
the RNC, can raise money.
GWEN IFILL: OK, Lisa Desjardins,
thank you.
LISA DESJARDINS: Pleasure.
GWEN IFILL: For more on the
splinters within
the Grand Old Party, we are
joined by Charlie
Sykes, conservative talk show
host and editor
in chief of the Web site
RightWisconsin.com,
and Matthew Dowd, chief
political analyst
for ABC News.
He is a former adviser to the
Republican National
Committee, and, in 2004, served
as President
George W. Bush's chief
strategist.
Welcome to you, gentlemen.
Charlie Sykes, you're in
Wisconsin.
We heard, saw what happened
today with Paul
Ryan, Mike Pence going one way,
Donald Trump
going the other way, and Reince
Priebus caught
in the middle.
Should there be -- the word we
keep hearing
is intervention.
Should there be an intervention
under way?
CHARLIE SYKES,
RightWisconsin.com: Yes, we
got to give credit to Matthew
Dowd because
he actually tweeted that out,
that it was
time for an intervention.
(LAUGHTER)
CHARLIE SYKES: Yes, absolutely.
What you have to understand is
that they were
trying to make a play for
Wisconsin.
Reince Priebus, of course, is
the key to all
of.
And he was the one who brokered
the deal with
Ryan and Trump and got Scott
Walker to flip-flop
on all of this.
And then Mike Pence is the
bridge to conservatives
in Wisconsin, where Donald Trump
has not done
well.
And what did Donald Trump do
yesterday but
come right behind Mike Pence and
blow up that
bridge.
So, obviously, you have this
sense that this
campaign is a dumpster fire
inside a nuclear
meltdown, and they absolutely
need an intervention.
And what happened in Wisconsin,
where Donald
Trump is coming here on Friday,
and he's coming
into very, very hostile
territory, almost
no leading Republican will be at
that rally,
and at some point, they're going
to have to
do a reset of some kind.
GWEN IFILL: But -- Matthew Dowd,
but we saw
the fund-raising numbers.
He's still doing well in some
situations.
We heard him today talk about
unity.
So where is he really?
Is this just people who never
liked him not
liking him anymore?
MATTHEW DOWD, ABC News: Well,
this is less
U.S. Constitution and more
Articles of Confederation
type of unity in the course of
this.
I mean, I don't see any unity at
this point
in time.
And you get the sense that
there's a whole
bunch of Republicans.
They can't force him off the
ballot.
Donald Trump is going to win.
I think there is a more of a
chance -- and
to Charlie's team, there's more
of a chance
of the Milwaukee Brewers winning
the World
Series this year than Donald
Trump getting
off the ballot in this case.
But I think what could happen is
Republican
Senate candidates, Republican
congressional
candidates begin to basically
design all their
campaigns completely separate
and apart from
Donald Trump.
I think this is a big concern.
It comes at the worst possible
time for Donald
Trump.
It comes in the aftermath of the
two conventions.
People thought this was going to
be a slow
period, but it really, Gwen,
sets up the tone
for what is going to happen in
the fall.
And it puts him at a huge
disadvantage in
the course of.
And I feel bad for Mike Pence.
Donald Trump ought to call Mike
Pence the
janitor, because he spends most
of his time
cleaning up the mess that's left
in aisle
one, two, three, four, and five.
And so I think he has got to
straighten this
out, but I don't know if Donald
Trump has
it in him to straighten out.
GWEN IFILL: Charlie Sykes, take
the long view
here.
What has Donald Trump been doing
right and
what has he not been doing as
right since
his convention?
CHARLIE SYKES: Well, he's been
getting a lot
of attention, hasn't he?
What he's been doing wrong is
almost everything.
In the last six days, rather
than going after
Hillary Clinton, he's what?
He's gone after the Gold Star
moms.
He's lied about the NFL letter.
He's thrown crying babies out of
his rally,
and he's picked fights with
prominent Republicans.
And I think that what you're
having -- and
I think Matthew is absolutely
right -- in
the last 24, 48 hours, there is
this growing
recognition that, you know what,
it's not
going to happen.
He's not going to pivot.
He's not going to grow up.
He's not going to become more
presidential.
And I think Republicans had been
talking themselves
into thinking, OK, you know,
Donald Trump
was one way during the primary,
but he's absolutely
assured us and Reince Priebus
has assured
us that he's going to change his
ways, he's
going to become more
responsible, and it can't
get any worse.
Well, on a daily basis, it's
gotten worse
and worse and worse.
And the stories that you're
seeing about the
disillusion in the Republican
Party are absolutely
true.
And the stories you're hearing
out of the
Trump campaign have the ring of
truth because
it doesn't look like he's
listening to somebody.
So, the question is, how does a
70-year-old
man change his temperament and
his character
and his judgment?
You can change the positions and
the language
of a campaign, but how do you
become somebody
different than who you are?
And I think what we're seeing is
who Donald
Trump is, and it's very, very
frightening
to a lot of Republicans right
now.
GWEN IFILL: Matthew, we saw him
come out today,
for instance, and talk about the
secret, or
whatever it was, shipment of
money to Iran
and make the connection between
what he said
was a deal that had been cut for
a bad deal
and how Iran had benefited from
that.
That seemed like it was sticking
to message.
So, he is not incapable of
sticking to message.
MATTHEW DOWD: No, he's not
incapable of it.
But he seems incapable of
sticking to a message
for more than 15 minutes or more
than 30 minutes
in the course of.
Presidential campaigns are
stories.
They're long narratives,
multi-chaptered stories.
And you have to build each
chapter in order
to convince voters at the end of
the story
that they need to go with you,
as opposed
to the opposition.
The thing I think that
frustrates Republicans
most -- and I will pick up on
something Charlie
said -- is the fact this is an
eminently winnable
race against Hillary Clinton.
But for Donald Trump, Hillary
Clinton is the
most unpopular, most untrusted
person to run
for office in an open seat ever
for the presidency.
The problem is, she's running
against somebody
more untrusted at this time, and
more disliked
at this time.
And so I think what's really
causing the huge
concern, is, wow, this is a race
that we could
have won, even with Donald
Trump.
The funny thing is, even with
Donald Trump
and all the mistakes, he's only
five or six
points behind in this
environment against
a candidate like Hillary
Clinton.
But if he keeps doing this and
can't stay
with a message longer than a
half-hour or
longer than an hour, Hillary
Clinton is going
to win a race that in most years
she should
be unable to win.
GWEN IFILL: Charlie Sykes, a
squandered opportunity
to go after Hillary Clinton?
CHARLIE SYKES: Yes, very much.
In fact, one top Republican told
me last night,
you know, if Donald Trump after
the convention
had just gone off to a desert
island and had
said nothing, he probably would
be ahead in
the polls, that what you have
here is Trump
is defeating Trump.
And that's what is so
frustrating, because
Hillary Clinton has actually had
a very, very
bad week.
And yet you wouldn't know it,
because Donald
Trump has really masked her
problems.
So, what I think you have is,
you have Republicans
trying to talk themselves into
thinking things
will get better, but that is
obviously at
this point the triumph of hope
over experience.
And I think that that's why you
might see
in the next three or four days
more and more
Republicans either withdraw
their support,
distance themselves.
I don't know how many you are
going to have
say that they are going to vote
for Hillary
Clinton.
But once that starts -- and I
don't know what
Matthew thinks about this -- I
get the sense
it might be a dam breaking, that
once you
have one prominent Republican
backing away,
that others are going to see
this as permission
to say, you know what, we do not
want to be
part of this.
We do not want to go down with
the anchor
of Donald Trump, because right
now it's not
just the presidency.
It is all the down-ballot races.
And I think you have a
Republican Party that's
looking into the abyss if they
cannot get
Donald Trump to clean up his
act.
GWEN IFILL: Matthew, you can
answer that question,
but I also want to you to answer
this.
We saw Paul Manafort, the
campaign chairman,
for all intents and purposes,
today say that
the person running this campaign
is Donald
Trump, he's the one who is in
control.
Is that a good or a bad thing?
MATTHEW DOWD: Well, a physician
shouldn't
be your own doctor.
And I have been involved in a
lot of campaigns
where candidates start out
thinking that they
should be the one running the
campaign.
They pretty much figure out very
quickly that's
impossible and they're going to
run a bad
campaign.
Usually, candidates run the
worst campaigns
in the course of this, because
they don't
have the objectivity to look at
it and see
what you need to do.
To answer Charlie's question, I
agree with
him.
I think you could see that
coming.
I think the first sign of you
seeing that
coming is there will begin to be
Republicans
start voting and start saying
they're going
to vote for Gary Johnson, the
Libertarian,
on the ballot.
And they are going to begin to
see Republicans
saying Gary Johnson ought to be
included in
the debates.
I don't think -- as Charlie
said, I don't
think you will see a bunch of
Republicans
go to Hillary Clinton, because
they think
that's as dissatisfactory a
choice as Donald
Trump is, but I can see a lot of
Republicans
deciding that Gary Johnson is
the best place
to go against Donald Trump.
GWEN IFILL: Matthew Dowd and
Charlie Sykes,
another 24 hours, and perhaps we
will even
get another storyline.
Thank you both very much.
For the record, we did try to
reach out to
the Trump campaign, and they
declined to provide
a spokesman.
But thank you both very much.
MATTHEW DOWD: Thank you.
CHARLIE SYKES: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: While the
Republican Party
has seen its share of conflicts
this week,
recent events have also
unearthed discord
within the ranks of the
Democrats as well.
The hacking of Democratic
National Committee
e-mails, experts say by the
Russian government,
and the posting of e-mails on
WikiLeaks, led
to the resignation of DNC
Chairwoman Debbie
Wasserman Schultz and other top
officials,
and exposed rifts within the
party.
But the revelation also caused
speculation
about how WikiLeaks got them and
why they
released them.
So, we decided to talk to Julian
Assange,
the founder of WikiLeaks, from
the Ecuadorian
Embassy in London, where he has
been holed
up for four years to avoid
extradition to
the U.S.
I spoke with him a short while
ago.
Julian Assange, welcome.
You said this week that
WikiLeaks is going
to be releasing more of the
information that
was hacked from the Democratic
National Committee
in different batches.
So when will the next batch
come?
JULIAN ASSANGE, Founder,
WikiLeaks: I'm afraid
I must correct you, Judy.
I didn't say that we would be
releasing information
that has been hacked from the
DNC.
We said that we have a
significant amount
of information, and the
information itself
is significant, and it pertains
to Hillary
Clinton's campaign.
And we will be releasing it in
several batches
as we are finished with the
journalistic work
on each batch.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, are you
saying this is
different from what was hacked
from the DNC
and the Democratic Congressional
Committee?
JULIAN ASSANGE: You have DNC
leaks, which
is what we do, and you have DNC
hacks, which
is an issue that goes back
several years.
There's been a lot of confusion,
which has
been pushed by the Hillary
Clinton campaign
to try and confuse hacking of
the DNC by a
wide variety of actors over the
last two years,
and our publication of 20,000
e-mails from
the DNC.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, let me just
pursue that,
though.
In terms of what WikiLeaks has,
you have said
you're analyzing the material
and you're looking
at which media partners to work
with to get
-- I think you said maximum
uptake from it.
Can you tell us anything tonight
about what's
in that material?
JULIAN ASSANGE: It's a wide
range of material.
It covers a number of important
issues.
There's a variety of natural
batches and some
thematic constellations that
we're working
on.
It's interesting material.
We have done enough work now
that we are comfortable
with the material's
authenticity.
And so now it's a matter of
completing the
format, layout to make it easy
and accessible
and so that journalists can
easily extract
material from it, extract
stories from it,
and also the general public.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What would you
consider a successful
outcome from all this?
We know that already four top
officials from
the Democratic National
Committee have resigned.
What would you consider the
successful outcome,
the most damage that could be
done from this?
JULIAN ASSANGE: Well, WikiLeaks
began 10 years.
We take leaks, principally from
whistle-blowers,
of material that is of
diplomatic, political,
ethical or historical
significance, typically
about corruption or war.
And we verify it.
And we publish it and we write
analysis about
it.
And we also engineer
globe-spanning media
collaborations in order to get
the best understanding
of that material.
And we place it in our library,
which is available
to everyone, has more than 10
million documents
in it now which we feel that
otherwise would
not have come before the public,
and that
performs an ongoing role leading
to great
works in investigative
journalism, successful
court cases, civil litigation,
criminal process,
and, of course, also contributes
to public
understanding during the moments
of political
competition.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, let me ask
you about
that, about the -- what you
consider a successful
outcome here, because we know
you have made
clear your strong feelings about
Hillary Clinton.
You wrote back in February --
and I'm quoting
now -- "She's a war hawk who
gets an unseemly
emotional rush out of killing
people.
She shouldn't be let near a gun
shop, much
less an army.
She certainly shouldn't become
president."
So, I think, why shouldn't the
American people
assume there's a political
motive here?
JULIAN ASSANGE: Well, let's flip
it the other
way around.
Let's say that I personally, the
editor -- my
personal opinion is different to
my function
as an editor.
But let's say that, personally,
I loved Hillary
Clinton.
Would WikiLeaks still publish
this material?
Of course it would.
Otherwise, we would be censoring
it.
That's our mandate.
It's actually interesting to
think about what
media organizations wouldn't
publish such
material if it was given to
them.
I think that's a very
interesting question.
So, my position, as an analyst
is that, yes,
that Hillary Clinton is a war
hawk.
But the statement was made
within the context
of the early phases of the
Democratic primaries.
It is by no means an endorsement
of Donald
Trump.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But you still
would oppose
her becoming president, which is
what you
wrote?
JULIAN ASSANGE: Well, I -- my
personal analysis
is that, if you are concerned
about U.S. foreign
policy and getting into foolish
wars, then
Hillary Clinton is not your
woman.
On the other hand, I mean
neither is Donald
Trump.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, bottom line,
why shouldn't
the American people look at this
and say,
this is an effort to undermine
the Clinton
campaign, the Democratic Party?
JULIAN ASSANGE: Well, I can
reveal to you
the source of the information
today.
The source of the information is
the Democratic
Party.
It is Debbie Wasserman Schultz.
It is the chief financial
officer.
It is the communications
officer, Luis Miranda,
in fact all these people who
have just been
fired, and another (INAUDIBLE)
so that's the
source of the information that's
known.
As to who the intermediaries
are, that's another
question.
It's also a little bit
concerning to see the
sort of McCarthyist attempt to
frame Trump
as some kind of Russian
conspirator.
I think both presidential
candidates are extremely
problematic.
But a kind of McCarthyist
hysteria, trying
to depict one of the candidates
as somehow
a Manchurian Candidate, I think
is a bit disturbing.
And then also a push for
journalists to reveal
their sources, as a journalist,
it's disgusting.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, I wanted to
give you
a chance to say what you
believe, Julian Assange.
But WikiLeaks, we know, argues
for transparency.
It's part of your very mission.
And so isn't this an extension
of that, transparency
about where this explosive
material came from,
how it fell into your hands?
JULIAN ASSANGE: As I said, we
know exactly
where it came from.
It came from materials that were
just published.
We know exactly where it came
from.
It came from the DNC.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You're saying the
future batches
will be material from Debbie
Wasserman Schultz,
the former head of the DNC, and
others?
Is that -- am I hearing you
correctly?
JULIAN ASSANGE: No, we haven't
said what it
is precisely that we are going
to publish.
We're working on it.
We obviously want it to be a bit
of a surprise,
because it encourages public
uptake and interest,
which is what all -- all
material seeks.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Julian Assange,
we thank you
for talking with us.
JULIAN ASSANGE: Thank you, Judy.
GWEN IFILL: Now that they have
won their respective
party nominations, Donald Trump
and Hillary
Clinton are eligible to receive
classified
intelligence briefings.
Director of National
Intelligence James Clapper
indicated the offers for such
briefings are
going out this week.
But what kind of secrets will
Trump and Clinton
become privy to?
Some partisans have been
suggesting neither
candidate can be trusted with
that information.
Margaret Warner has been looking
at genesis
of those briefings, and she
joins me now.
Margaret, when did this become a
political
football?
MARGARET WARNER: Just in this
election, Gwen.
This has been going on ever
since Harry Truman
became president suddenly and
didn't even
know about the Manhattan Project
in 1945,
decided he didn't want any
president, future
president-elect to be faced with
this.
And it's just gone on.
And some candidates use it a
lot.
Some candidates don't avail
themselves much.
But this year, as you said,
partisans have
been attacking both candidates
as being untrustworthy
with the information.
At the Aspen security conference
last week,
James Clapper, the head of --
the DNI, said
he had -- quote -- "no
hesitation" and, in
fact, that teams of
professionals had already
been assigned to each candidate.
But there was a lot of
scuttlebutt.
There were a lot of spooks and
former spooks,
as I like to describe them, at
this conference.
And there were quite a few
questions, frankly,
about whether Trump would even
avail himself
of them, since he said, "I know
more about
ISIS than the generals."
So...
GWEN IFILL: How does it work?
I mean, do they go to the CIA
and get the
briefing?
Does the CIA come to them?
MARGARET WARNER: It's a combo of
both.
They try to make sure it's a
secure location.
Part of it depends on whether
they have asked
for the overview or a deep dive
on one topic.
So, they might just make a hotel
room secure.
They might even set up what is
called a SCIF,
which is a special secure
facility, or just
sweep it.
Other times, they have to go to
the local
FBI office.
But the scope of the information
is really
broad, general intelligence
assessments.
There's no discussion of covert
operations,
for example.
So if someone were to say, well,
who is your
source in the Iranian
government, I'm not
allowed to say, sir.
That changes dramatically when
someone becomes
a president-elect.
Then there are teams literally,
I'm told,
at the headquarters of each
candidate, and
the next morning is delivered to
him or her
the presidential daily brief.
GWEN IFILL: Which is really the
top-top-secret
documents.
MARGARET WARNER: That's covert
ops.
That's a lot.
That's sources and methods.
None of that is going to be
revealed now.
GWEN IFILL: Has it been ever
withheld from
anyone, this kind of briefing?
MARGARET WARNER: No, never
withheld, but,
as I said, many don't avail
themselves.
I think Ronald Reagan had only
one.
Bill Clinton had only one.
This is all according to a great
history log
that is written by John...
(CROSSTALK)
GWEN IFILL: Why wouldn't you --
why wouldn't
avail yourself?
MARGARET WARNER: As it's been
explained to
me, just think about what we
have got in the
next 98 days.
These men and women are focused
on winning.
They're focused on the debates.
They're focused on the money
raising.
They're focused on the
state-by-state count.
Their level of interest may not
be as high
as we think it should be.
Secondly, one senior
intelligence official,
actually Mike Hayden, a former
director and
deputy director of the CIA said
-- of the
NSA -- said, you know, they
don't really want
too know too much, because they
don't want
to be caught in the debate and
say, can I
say that?
Where did I get that
information?
GWEN IFILL: Has that ever
happened, where
someone has inadvertently
blabbed?
MARGARET WARNER: I asked that,
and apparently
not that anyone could think of.
And, again, as Hayden said, they
know it's
akin to the death penalty to let
something
like that slip.
But there is -- if I may go
on...
GWEN IFILL: Sure.
MARGARET WARNER: ... there's a
huge difference
in the level of intelligence
that's given
at this stage.
And Mike Morell, former deputy
director and
director temporary of the CIA,
had to brief
McCain and Palin.
And he said, so you walk in with
John McCain
from Armed Services Committee
and Intel Committee,
one of the great experts in the
Senate, immediately,
it's going very deep.
He knows a lot.
But he said, you know, with a
Sarah Palin,
he said it's like national
security 101, and
it's very broad and it's very
general, and
you have got to give a lot of
history.
And that will probably apply
this time with
Trump and Secretary Clinton.
As one said to me, Secretary
Clinton, she
will probably walk in and say,
so, where were
we?
She's learned these secrets for
a long, long
time, even though not in the
last two years.
GWEN IFILL: Do vice presidential
candidates
get them as well?
MARGARET WARNER: Yes, they do.
GWEN IFILL: So, the only person
of the four
who doesn't have Washington
experience would
be Donald Trump.
MARGARET WARNER: That's right.
GWEN IFILL: And, therefore,
would be classified
briefing 101, as you put it.
(LAUGHTER)
GWEN IFILL: Margaret Warner,
thank you so
much.
MARGARET WARNER: My pleasure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: A series of
federal court decisions
in the last few weeks could
change the rules
about how many Americans will be
casting votes
this November.
William Brangham has the latest
on these rulings.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Voting rights
supporters
have won a series of remarkable
victories
in the last few weeks, what they
contend is
a much-needed pushback against
what they say
are discriminatory voter-I.D.
laws.
Since 2008, 10 states, almost
all governed
by Republican legislatures, have
passed laws
tightening the requirements for
the kinds
of I.D. you need in order to
vote, or made
other changes to when and how
votes get cast.
But several federal courts have
now ruled
that some of those laws are
discriminatory.
On Monday, a federal judge
blocked North Dakota's
voter I.D. law, saying it
impinged on the
rights of Native Americans.
The judge wrote -- quote -- "No
eligible voter,
regardless of their station in
life, should
be denied the opportunity to
vote."
Last Friday, a federal court
ruled that North
Carolina's new voting laws had
intentionally
been designed to discriminate
against minorities,
saying -- quote -- "These new
provisions target
African-Americans with almost
surgical precision."
And then, in July, another court
ruled that
Texas' voter-I.D. laws also hurt
minority
voters, and they ordered the
laws be changed
before November, saying -- quote
-- "It would
be untenable to permit a law
with a discriminatory
effect to remain in operation
for that election."
Joining me now to wade through
these changes
is U.C.
Irvine law Professor Richard
Hasen.
He writes what's called The
Election Law Blog.
So, Professor, help me
understand this.
The courts have been saying, not
so fast,
states.
Generally speaking, what have
the states been
doing with their voting laws in
recent years?
RICK HASEN, University of
California, Irvine:
Well, most of these, but not all
of these
challenges involve new strict
voter identification
laws.
Every state has some way of
identifying voters,
but if you narrow the number of
identifications
that are acceptable, and a lot
of people don't
have those I.D.s, you run the
risk of disenfranchising
people who are otherwise
eligible to vote.
And so in cases out of
Wisconsin, North Carolina,
North Dakota, and Texas, just in
the last
few weeks, we have seen those
laws struck
down, in the case of North
Carolina, or, in
the case of these other states,
softened so
that people who lack one of
these narrow forms
of I.D. can find a work-around,
a different
way to be able to prove their
identity and
cast a ballot.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: We touched a
little bit
at this on the introduction, but
what is it
that the courts have been saying
that these
laws do?
What do they find so
objectionable about them?
RICK HASEN: Well, the rulings
are not all
the same.
In North Carolina, as you
mentioned, the court
thought that the law was
intentionally discriminatory
against African-Americans, that
is not necessarily
that the state of North Carolina
acted with
racial hatred or racial animus,
but they knew
that this law was going to make
it harder
for African-Americans to vote,
and they did
that anyway, and in part doing
it knowing
that African-Americans tend to
vote for Democrats.
And this was a Republican
legislature, as
it was in all of the states that
you have
mentioned, passing the new
restrictive laws
in order to gain some political
advantage.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Supporters of
these laws
have been saying all along that
these were
made to prevent voter fraud.
I know, in the North Carolina
case, the judges
ruled that there was really no
evidence that
that's happening.
Is there evidence that voter
fraud is happening
or is a problem in other states?
RICK HASEN: Well, you know, it
depends on
the kind of voter fraud that
you're talking
about.
The term is thrown around
loosely, but the
kind of voter fraud that a voter
identification
law would target would be
impersonation fraud.
I go into the polls pretending
to be someone
else.
This turns out to be very, very
rare.
It's not the way that, when
elections are
manipulated, that it happens.
The kind of fraud that we tend
to see, which
is still rare, falls into one of
two categories.
Either it's election officials
doing something
to mess with the vote-counting,
or it's something
to do with absentee ballots,
such as the sale
of absentee ballots.
Somebody buys absentee ballots
and then votes
them how they want.
These kind of activities are not
at all addressed
by voter I.D. laws, which really
only provide
identification in the polling
place to make
sure that someone who shows up
is who he or
she says he is.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: But on this
issue of voter
fraud, you have probably been
hearing Donald
Trump has been making noises
recently that
he believes this November
election could very
well be stolen because of fraud.
He says if people don't have an
I.D., what's
to stop them from going in and
voting 10 times?
What's the answer?
RICK HASEN: Well, that sounds
like someone
-- yes, that sounds like someone
who has never
been to a polling place, because
you just
can't go in and ask for a
ballot, and they
will just trust you.
There is a voter roll.
There is a list.
Every state identifies you
somehow.
It might be that you give your
signature.
And if it's that, then your
signature is on
the line.
You're already voted.
You can't vote 10 times.
I would say it was a silly thing
to say, except
I think it's really dangerous to
call the
integrity of our elections into
question,
because our very democracy
depends upon those
who are on the losing side of
the election
having faith that the votes were
fairly and
accurately counted.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Is there a
potential that
these recent changes could cause
confusion
on Election Day?
RICK HASEN: There is certainly
the potential
for confusion.
Just now today, in Texas, the
state of Texas
and the plaintiffs agreed to a
set of rules
for how people who lack one of
the narrow
forms of I.D. would be able to
vote, by providing,
for example, a utility bill or a
different
kind of identification.
In Wisconsin, they're still
litigating over
what the rules are going to be.
And in North Carolina, North
Carolina indicated
today they may go as far as the
Supreme Court
to try to get their law, which
had been reversed,
put back on the books in time
for November.
But I do think it's a real
danger that, as
we get closer to the election,
voters may
not know, for example, in Texas,
that if they
lack one of those narrow forms
of I.D., they
will still be eligible to vote
if they're
otherwise eligible to cast a
ballot.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right,
Rick Hasen from
the U.C.
Irvine, thank you very much for
being here.
RICK HASEN: Thank you.
GWEN IFILL: It's that time of
year when many
folks are heading to the beach.
But along parts of the Southeast
Coast, vacationers
may run into some unwanted
visitors, as the
National Weather Service has
issued hazard
warnings caused by jellyfish
found in Myrtle
Beach, South Carolina.
That's temporary, but what's not
are the persistent
numbers of the slimy creatures
populating
the waters of the ocean.
Science correspondent Miles
O'Brien reports,
just in time for the summer, for
our weekly
series on the Leading Edge of
science and
technology.
MILES O'BRIEN: On beaches, in
harbors and
beneath bays all over the world,
jellies are
on a roll.
And it appears it's a stinging
rebuke of us
from Mother Nature herself.
JENNY PURCELL, Western
Washington University:
Jellyfish are thriving in
environments that
are damaged by the human
activities.
MILES O'BRIEN: Marine biologist
Jenny Purcell
is a research associate at
Western Washington
University in Bellingham.
She studies huge aggregations,
or smacks,
of moon jellyfish that have
exploded in Puget
Sound.
JENNY PURCELL: Human populations
have increased.
Their pressure on the oceans
And the jellyfish populations
have increased.
So it's very hard to put a cause
and effect
on that, but the correlations
are certainly
there.
MILES O'BRIEN: There is plenty
of anecdotal
evidence that it's happening,
but arriving
at hard numbers is like nailing
jelly to a
wall.
JENNY PURCELL: Because there
have been so
few jellyfish scientists,
there's a critical
shortage of jellyfish data.
We don't know how many jellyfish
or even what
jellyfish are there.
MILES O'BRIEN: But at aquariums
all over the
country, there is plenty of
concrete proof
jellyfish fascinate us.
CHILD: Cute, but dangerous.
MILES O'BRIEN: They are nature's
lava lamp,
a morbidly mesmerizing marquee
attraction.
STEVEN BAILEY, New England
Aquarium: Penguins,
hard to beat penguins.
MILES O'BRIEN: Yes.
STEVEN BAILEY: Sharks, hard to
beat sharks.
But I would say that jellies
come in a strong
third rather consistently.
This is hour cold culture room.
MILES O'BRIEN: Steven Bailey is
the curator
of fishes at the New England
Aquarium, smack
dab on Boston Harbor, if you
will.
Bailey is a card-carrying
jellyhead.
STEVEN BAILEY: They seem to be
capable of
doing things physiologically
that can't be
described by their body plan, by
the structures
that they possess.
MILES O'BRIEN: This got me
intrigued.
CHRIS DOLLER, New England
Aquarium: This is
actually the fifth floor of the
aquarium,
considered, like, sort of the
attic.
MILES O'BRIEN: So I asked senior
aquarist
Chris Doller for a
behind-the-scenes tour.
Where are we now?
CHRIS DOLLER: This area is
affectionately
known as Area X.
(LAUGHTER)
MILES O'BRIEN: Area X is the one
of the most
prolific jellyfish nurseries in
the nation.
They keep about 13 at the
aquarium, a varied
sampling of the 200 large and
800 small types
of jellyfish in the world.
They are all cnidaria, in the
same phylum
as anemones and corals among
others.
CHRIS DOLLER: They're so simple,
yet so complex.
There's a huge variety of
jellies.
So, you can get very colorful
You can get very iridescent
jellies.
We have some fluorescent
MILES O'BRIEN: No brain, no
blood, no spinal
cord, just muscle, nerves and
stinging cells
to kill prey, and inadvertently
bother beach-loving
humans.
How often do you get stung?
CHRIS DOLLER: I try not to, but
it's almost
a daily occurrence.
MILES O'BRIEN: So what does a
grizzled pro
use?
Warm water or vinegar.
CHRIS DOLLER: I think the worst
sting I ever
got was from a flower hat jelly.
MILES O'BRIEN: Really?
CHRIS DOLLER: Yes.
MILES O'BRIEN: Some jellies bear
more than
a resemblance to a plant.
The lagoon and upside down
jellyfish species
are among those that are
photosynthetic.
Their tissue becomes a home for
algae, and
the jellies use it for energy.
All they need is sunshine to
stay alive.
CHRIS DOLLER: That brown that
you see in the
tissue, that's all algal cells,
so they are
basically harvesting within
them.
Yes, the plant is sort of living
in their
tissue.
MILES O'BRIEN: Jellyfish
reproduce sexually
and asexually.
Most adults send sperm and eggs
into the water,
creating small larvae that grow
into polyps.
They reproduce by cloning over
and over and
over again.
Voila, a jellyfish smack.
They're not schooling in the
classic sense,
right?
CHRIS DOLLER: Right.
The way they bud off, it's just
pure numbers,
and then they're all sort of
drifting in the
same current.
They don't migrate
intentionally.
They just sort of go where the
ocean takes
them.
MILES O'BRIEN: They go with the
flow.
CHRIS DOLLER: Go with the flow.
MILES O'BRIEN: On the move, they
are constantly
grazing.
So why are they thriving?
Many jelly species reproduce
faster in warmer
water, so climate change has an
impact.
But, right now, researchers say
overfishing
is the biggest cause of the
jellyfish bonanza.
JENNY PURCELL: People have
fished out the
fisheries.
There is more food left for the
jellyfish.
MILES O'BRIEN: And they will eat
almost anything.
They also don't mind living in
troubled waters,
like the huge oxygen-starved
Dead Zone in
the Gulf of Mexico.
It is caused by nutrient-rich
fertilizer flowing
down the Mississippi.
It creates a lot of algae that
depletes underwater
oxygen levels.
That means fewer fish and more
food for the
jellies.
So, algae blooms and jellyfish
smacks go hand
in hand.
The guy who has that perfect
lawn right down
to the river, if you will, when
he goes to
the beach and he gets stung by a
jellyfish,
he actually has some
culpability.
STEVEN BAILEY: I would say that
that's rather
poetic, yes.
MILES O'BRIEN: Maybe one
solution is to start
eating them more.
In Florida, Georgia and the
Carolinas, a new
kind of fishing industry is
emerging.
Entrepreneurs are harvesting
cannonball jellies,
pickling them, and exporting
jelly balls to
Asia, where they are considered
a delicacy.
Have you ever eaten a jellyfish?
CHRIS DOLLER: I have.
MILES O'BRIEN: How is it?
CHRIS DOLLER: Didn't enjoy it.
MILES O'BRIEN: Really?
No surprise.
They have no taste, are as chewy
as an eraser,
and pack precious little caloric
value.
I guess that means we can eat a
lot of them,
if we like.
But there is little concern we
might fish
these guys into oblivion.
JENNY PURCELL: I think the
jellyfish will
persist after the Armageddon.
(LAUGHTER)
MILES O'BRIEN: They started on
Earth more
than 500 million years ago, so
why not go
for a billion?
The cockroaches of the sea,
perhaps, but in
the smackdown for fans, the
jellies win, tentacles
down.
Miles O'Brien, the "PBS
NewsHour," Boston.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now: a new look
at the terrible
cost of slavery in America.
It comes in a work of fiction,
one that combines
gritty realism with a leap of
the imagination.
What if the Underground Railroad
was an actual
train?
Well, in fact, "The Underground
Railroad"
is the title of Colson
Whitehead's novel.
He spoke with Jeffrey Brown
earlier this summer
at BookExpo America in Chicago.
JEFFREY BROWN: Let me ask you to
sort of introduce
what you have done here.
It's a novel, but -- but...
COLSON WHITEHEAD, Author, "The
Underground
Railroad": It starts off as a
traditional,
realistic about slavery.
Our main protagonist is a woman
named Cora.
She's 16, 17 living on a cotton
plantation.
And when conditions deteriorate,
she's convinced
to flee north on the Underground
Railroad.
When I first came up with the
idea many years
ago, I thought, what if the
Underground Railroad
was an actual railroad,
literally underneath
the earth?
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
Well, let's explain that.
The Underground Railroad was a
system, right,
I mean, an idea.
It was people, places, and --
but not a real
railroad.
COLSON WHITEHEAD: No, there were
people who
were sympathetic to the slaves
and arranged
safe havens and got people
north, hid them,
moved them station to station.
And it wasn't a literal
Underground Railroad.
But I think a lot of people,
when they first
hear about it when they're kids,
at least
for a few minutes, they think
it's an actual
subway.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
(LAUGHTER)
COLSON WHITEHEAD: So, the
conceit is, what
if it actually was an
underground train system?
How would that work?
And then it...
JEFFREY BROWN: And you said this
came to you
many years ago?
COLSON WHITEHEAD: About 16 years
ago.
And I knew if I tried it then,
it wouldn't
work.
I wasn't really up to the task.
It seemed a bit too big for me.
And I figured, if I got a little
older, or
wiser, became a better writer, I
might be
able to tackle it and give it
its due.
And so, every couple years, in
between books,
I would pull out my notes and
think, am I
ready?
And each time, it was, no.
And so I would do a different
book.
JEFFREY BROWN: Why was the
answer no?
In what way were you not ready?
COLSON WHITEHEAD: Well, the
subject is so
huge.
How do you wrap your head
around, completely
around the atrocity of slavery?
How can you make people that you
care about,
your characters, and put them
into this horrible
system and create a realistic
story?
So, I think, if I had tried it
16 years ago,
it would have been much
different.
Now I'm older.
I have kids.
And I actually know what it is
to contemplate
having your mother sold in front
of you, having
your children sold, seeing your
siblings,
your friends tortured, beaten.
And so I think, now I'm in my
mid-40s, I have
more of an idea of what family
means, and
that's very much important to
the character
in the book and creating a
realistic family
structure for my plantation
characters.
JEFFREY BROWN: I was wondering
if you were
worried or putting it off
because of the mix
of taking the horror of that
real history
and the reality of those real
lives, but then
putting it into this kind of
"Gulliver's Travels,
where there is a kind of fantasy
aspect to
it.
COLSON WHITEHEAD: Well, yes.
I think, a couple years ago, the
fantasy would
have been much more pronounced
and much broader.
Now I think the magic realism
dial is, like,
set on one, as opposed to 10 or
a "Spinal
Tap"-ian 11.
(LAUGHTER)
COLSON WHITEHEAD: So, each state
she goes
through is a different sort of
state of American
possibility.
South Carolina is a benevolent
paternalistic
state, where slaves are given
programs for
racial uplifted.
North Carolina is a white
supremacist state.
And they're -- so each stop is a
sort of island
in the "Gulliver's Travels"-type
sense.
JEFFREY BROWN: One that you have
imagined.
COLSON WHITEHEAD: Yes, but it's
treated in
a very deadpan and
matter-of-fact way.
And so while I am stretching the
truth or
tweaking reality, it is still
much grounded
in what we would call, you know,
the truth.
JEFFREY BROWN: Once you opened
it up that
way, was it freeing as a writer?
COLSON WHITEHEAD: It was very
liberating.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes?
COLSON WHITEHEAD: Once you have
a literal
railroad, you're bringing a
fantasy element
that allows you to do different
things and
play with time.
And so I bring in the Tuskegee
experiments.
I bring in sort of Nazism and
white supremacy.
And even though it takes place
in 1850, I'm
allowed to rove in these
different kind of
modes and bring in a lot of
different aspects
of American history in a way
that I couldn't
if I was being -- if I was
sticking to the
facts.
JEFFREY BROWN: Because it's all
-- all of
it is fraught territory, right,
for, I mean,
today?
COLSON WHITEHEAD: It's fraught.
People have asked, was I
inspired by Ferguson
or Black Lives Matter?
You know, the fact is that white
people in
authority have been abusing the
black body
for centuries.
You don't have to go -- look to
Ferguson to
find someone being gunned down
by policemen.
In the 1850s, before they had
kind of police
force in the South, the
authority was the
slave patroller.
And a slave patroller could stop
any black
person, free or slave, and
demand to see their
papers.
And if you didn't have your
papers or an excuse
for being off the plantation,
you would be
beaten, put in jail, brought
back to your
master.
And that's analogous to stop and
frisk right
now.
When I was younger, I guess more
threatening-looking,
I would be stopped, I would be
searched.
"What are you doing in this
neighborhood?"
So, I'm not addressing
contemporary ills.
I'm addressing the sort of
problems that have
been around since the beginning
of the country.
And, hopefully, by the end, I
have learned
something in finishing the book.
JEFFREY BROWN: You used to doubt
whether it
was ever going to be finished?
COLSON WHITEHEAD: Yes.
I mean, I think I had a concept
called the
get-hit-by-a-bus draft.
And that's like the draft you
want in case
you get hit by a bus an hour
later.
Like, will people understand
what you're trying
to do?
Because you're working on a
novel for years,
and then if something happens to
you in the
middle, no one is going to know
what you were
trying to do.
So, if you can just get to that
hit-by-a-bus
draft, that's always a nice...
(CROSSTALK)
JEFFREY BROWN: I never heard
that one before.
That's when you know you're OK?
COLSON WHITEHEAD: Yes.
It needs to be copy-edited, but
people will
understand what you were trying
-- what you
were up to.
JEFFREY BROWN: I don't know if
you want to
put that out in a self-help for
writers book.
(LAUGHTER)
COLSON WHITEHEAD: I think all of
my writing
tips are grim.
My students definitely have
gotten used to
that.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right.
The new novel, the coming novel
is "The Underground
Railroad."
Colson Whitehead, thank you so
much.
COLSON WHITEHEAD: Thanks a lot.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Online, you can
watch many
more of Jeff's author interviews
from BookExpo
America and other book
festivals.
You will find them at
PBS.org/book-view-now.
GWEN IFILL: Also on the
"NewsHour" online
right now: Margaret Warner pays
tribute to
the first Arab scientist to win
a Nobel Prize,
Ahmed Zewail, who died
yesterday.
In the wake of the Egyptian
revolution, the
pioneering chemist had high
hopes of helping
to rebuild the country in order
to nurture
the next generation.
Learn more about him on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And tune in later
tonight.
On "Charlie Rose": newly retired
New York
City Police Commissioner Bill
Bratton on the
issues still facing his
department.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
GWEN IFILL: I'm Gwen Ifill.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening.
For all of us here at the "PBS
NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.
For all of us here at the "PBS
NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.